In this video we will learn about Nested conditional statement.
It is Called as nested if.
what does it mean let us learn that at first,  then I will show you a program on that one.
So let us see Nested if see here.
This is a conditional statement from here to here is if block and here to here is an else block.
So this is an if statement as statements, else statements. if and else block. inside if,
Again there is a if and else block, can you write like this.
Yes you can write depends on your problem depends on your requirement.
Right.
So inside if also you can have its own again if and else if required.
Also inside else also so you can write.
Yes I have one more thing.
Can I write if again inside this.
Yes you can write if and else up to any nested level.
So this is supported by C++.
So that's it.
In some cases we need to write nested conditional statements like this.
And most of the time it happens to be here inside else block rather than iF block.
Mostly it will be inside else block. if so and so else,
in else again if so and so.
So we write this. we will be using this type of conditional statement many times in our program.
So we will come across them.
Right.
So that's all about nested if. now I have an example,
So let us take an example and use nested if statements for writing a program.
So for that already I have a flowchart here.
So let me take example and explain you about the flowchart and the problem.
Then I will write a program.
Let us write the program for finding GREATEST OF THREE NUMBERS.
Suppose I have three numbers as input ABC.
I have this input.
I want to find out who is having greatest number.
Actually these are three variables in which variable we have greatest number.
So let us check it. if suppose this is having value 10 and this is having value 5 and this
is three then which is a greater? a.
How do you say a is greater than
All because a is greater than b and A is greater than C so when a can be greater that it should
be greater than b also  and it should be greater than c also then we can say a is greater.
So it means if a is greater than B as well as means AND it a should be greater  than
C then who is greater?a is greater.
Right, a is greater.
just i will write down here,  it's not a C++ code.
So if suppose a is not having ten it is having value 2
Then what happens.
Check this a is greater .
Then B, no a  itself is not greater than B it's not greater than c. first of all a is not greater than  B.
That is false.
So this is false.
And even if this is true then it fails.
But this also false.
So if a is 4 then this is false and this is true this will be true then what is the result of
AND.
You know we have known about this a logical operators so false and true is a false.
So A is not a greater than who is greater if a is not greater than then two are remaining B and
C so either B is good or C is greater. let us compare them so afterwards.
Else.
else if B is greater than C then B is a greater right.
B is bring down on in this also ends C is great that design writing pseudocode like thing.
It's not a program.
So if a is good to then boarded an eighth grader.
Otherwise b or c can we get.
So it is good to then see we don't have to compare it in all just we would see among two one is gone.
Right.
One is gone is gone.
Like a lot of data.
So what we meaning B and C it B is good to then see.
Otherwise C is good.
So this is all we can check the greatest of three numbers.
So already you have a flowchart here and between them what's ABC and here I am checking if it is greater
than B as often as I used to then see if true this should be true if true then print a and stop I was
missing this is false then what is possible B good at it and see if B is good at and C then print B
and then stop.
If this is true
else if not then who is good at it last season.
Good.
And stop.
So there are two conditional statement conditional statement and again conditional statement.
So let us see how to write on this in a C++ program.
I relied on the program here.
So here is a program I have a main function although written partially I have three variables because
we need three variables that enter three numbers then read seen a b c we are reading the variance right
now I have to write on the punishment statements if it is greater than B and it is greater than C then
I have to print that a C out just a.
So actually I want I'm not giving a message to just Sam displaying a grade on them.
That's what I saw on the screen only them but it will appear next.
Else is inside Ms.
Again check if B is greater than C if so c out.
B else C out.
C Not one more thing I have to explain your here.
C inside this as we have a finance so that I know floor I get because these are single statements not
f just inside else if they're just off after rails only separated by flow back and then we can write
on this if followed by this one also B is greater than C then here I can see C out B right.
And finally here again right Edwards and c c out C so this will be unlisted nested if a statement only
you can even write like this.
So if I read now if he is get it and b earnings get it and c I don't see if B's here at NC ls C..
So this is all we can write can nested conditional statement that is nested if I write.
So there is a coding exercise for this one.
So you have to write on these conditional statements in that coding exercise only this portion you have
to write on.
That is spend this one or this one on this one.
Anyone notice.
Then there are more coding exercises you have to solve them by yourself.
And the description is given in detail just you study it right.
So it's not a complex problem which is a simple problem.
Read the question and understand it and solve it.
And if you can't solve it just give a message.
I will reply you back under the demo will have a label for this one so watch it and I write the program
by yourself on your machine.
Practice coding exercises just to make you feel confident on the topic and come from that you have understood
the topic so that following the speech.